SETI@home: algorithms and results

SETI@home is a commensal radio SETI sky survey.
From 2006 to 2020 we recorded baseband data at the Arecibo Observatory,
divided it into chunks, and processed it using home computers -
at the peak, about a million of them.
We used this computing power to increase
the generality and sensitivity of the search:
we looked for 5 types of signals with 15 frequency resolutions,
and used coherent integration over a wide range of Doppler drift rates.
This produced a database of about 12 billion "detections".
In the second phase we removed detections
that were likely radio frequency intererence (RFI),
then found and ranked "signal candidates":
groups of detections, possibly spread over years,
that are close in sky position and frequency.
We used software-generated "birdies" to guide algorithm development
and estimate overall sensitivity.
The final phase is ongoing; with the help of colleagues in China,
we're reobserving the 100 highest-ranking signal candidates using the
Five-hundred-meter Aperture Spherical Telescope (FAST) radio telescope.

SETI@home is a commensal radio SETI sky survey.  From 2006 to 2020 we recorded baseband data at the Arecibo Observatory, divided it into chunks, and processed it using home computers - at the peak, about a million of them.  We used this computing power to increase the generality and sensitivity of the search: we looked for 5 types of signals with 15 frequency resolutions, and used coherent integration over a wide range of Doppler drift rates.  This produced a database of about 12 billion "detections".  In the second phase we removed detections that were likely radio frequency intererence (RFI), then found and ranked "signal candidates": groups of detections, possibly spread over years, that are close in sky position and frequency.  We used software-generated "birdies" to guide algorithm development and estimate overall sensitivity.  The final phase is ongoing; with the help of colleagues in China, we're reobserving the 100 highest-ranking signal candidates using the Five-hundred-meter Aperture Spherical Telescope (FAST) radio telescope.
